Now, I'm going to make this example or
this lab a little bit more
complicated, so
we're going to change the navigation.
I'm going to keep this index.php as it is
with a different name, so let's rewrite
it as all.php because we are seeing all
the objects at the same time, okay?
And now we are going to create another
index, PHP, if you want, you can copy and
paste that one, so
let's start with that one.
So duplicate the PHP, so
keep the old version and the new one under
the name PHP, because what I want
now we're going to do two things.
We are going to try to end
up using a database, and
also we will define a navigation using
what is known as a master detail.
Master detail means we are going to
start with the list of options, and
we will click in one option, and
we will go to a details page,
that will render me the details.
Nothing so complicated,
it's just the same data, but
just to play with the idea of
navigation between pages and
how to do that with PHP,
what's the design pattern behind this?
Let's start with solving
the database problem, okay?
In the data folder, I also have
a JSON version, but it's just for
telling you that that's actually
simple if you wanna read JSON.
So, we can quickly move this to that,
so instead of include data.php,
what I can do is, I will do it quickly
because it doesn't add any value.
Because we have already played with JSON,
but you can quickly create a JSON variable
that you're going to use file, get
contents, remember we used that for a URL?
Well, now we can use it for
a file, so we can take the JSON,
I have double parentheses for
some reason, I have only one,
I need only one, and then for
that JSON, what do I need?
I need to decode it or encode it,
what do you think, encode or decode?
>> Student 1: Decode.
>> Student 2: Decode.
>> Student 3: Decode.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Decode, so
I'm going to decode that JSON into
exhibits, we are kind of done Yeah,
maybe we need to check if you're
getting an object or an array or
how that works, but it's kind of from
now on its kind of the same exercise,
okay?
So, it's not a big deal, what I'm saying
is you don't need to hard code your
data in a PHP file, you can use JSON for
configuration settings or something.
And
it's pretty simple to load the JSON and
parse it and
then using it, does it make sense?
I think that the cool part
is to use the database, so
let's focus on the database part.
And for the database, maybe I wanna go
back to OOP, so
let's create just to separate concerns,
let's create the database object.
So,
following the same pattern
that I did before,
I'm going to create a folder
classes within here,
I'm going to create a class DB PHP,
P1DV, PHP or database, PHP,
we're going to create the class DB, okay?
Of course,
we need PHP tag, class DB, and
by the way, we may have in the future,
we can use here even inheritance
because we can have an abstract DB,
do we have abstract classes here?
We do,
you know what an abstract
class is in Java or
C sharp?
Can anyone give us a definition?
>> Speaker 4: It's a super class that
has functionality that can be inherited.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So, it's a class
that you cannot create options from it,
so you cannot instantiate, and to use it,
you have to create a subclass
that extends from it.
And some of the methods might have code,
some of the methods might not have code.
So, you can have abstract classes,
we don't need to create one, but
if you want, you can.
And then that will have a method,
for example, that will say open,
we can have a function open,
again, you don't need to add code,
you can stop there if you want, okay?
Because it's an after class,
we don't need to get into that,
I'm just telling you that that exists.
So, and the idea is that I
wanna connect to a database,
so let's talk a little bit
about databases in PHP.
PHP, by default,
actually has no support for databases,
which sounds, come on,
because we need to separate
between what is known as
the standard library and libraries.
So, every PHP runtime has
the standard library,
the standard library is
actually the least, by the way,
I have a typo here in the opening time.
The standard library is everything you
see here when you start typing here a,
everything you see here that you can see,
it's a very long list,
just starting with a,
just starting with a.
So, this is part of the standard library,
but
then you can enable or
disable additional libraries, and
some of those libraries are coming
from the same team, some are not.
And this is something that you
set up in your PHP installation.
By default, most of the installation
have a lot of libraries that
are part sometimes of the same group,
the same PHP team created those libraries.
And for that, we have let's say,
providers to connect to
the most common databases.
So it's not in the standard library,
but a kind of, so
it's a sibling of the standard library.
Anyway, it's always enabled
by default on most providers,
maybe for performance reasons some
cloud provider will tell you,
no, we have only these libraries enabled,
okay?
So which databases can we use?
Mostly everything, Postgres, Oracle,
Microsoft, SQL Server,
MySQL, MariaDB, and so on.
They're going to use, because of lack of
time, and also because I don't know if you
have experience with working
with databases or not.
It's not a requirement for this course,
we're going to use the simplest
one that is also enabled by defaulting
PHP, that library is SQLite.
I'm not sure if you have used it,
SQLite an open-source library,
that is not targeting PHP,
it's actually available for
every platform, you can use it right
now even on the web client side.
So it's available on Android, on iPhone,
so if you have a phone with you,
the library is included in your phone,
it's part of the operating system.
It's actually, as it says here,
a small, fast, self-contained,
high-reliability, full-feature
SQL database engine, so
first, it's a SQL-based engine,
so it's not NoSQL, okay?
It's not like Mongo,
you're not storing objects,
you're creating tables,
records on those tables and so on.
So, we should just use very simple
SQL language, so no worries,
but you need to get into databases in
case you wanna extend the usage of this.
And SQLite is not really a server,
which helps us in,
we don't need to set up a server and
MySQL server or MariaDB server,
that might take some time and see if you
have permissions and the port and blah.
I need to understand how
to administrate that MySQL,
it's just a file, but
we can talk to that file as if
it is a MySQL database using
the same language, SQL, okay?
Any questions on SQLite?
I already created the database,
and the data is already there,
it's this one, Data DB,
how can you see the database SQL?
If you wanna see the details,
if you wanna see what's inside,
because it's a binary format, so
if I say open anyway, with a text editor,
this is what I see, well,
I see data there, okay?
But yeah, it's a binary file, okay?
But I need to find a viewer, there
are a lot of viewers out there for SQLite,
there are even ones that
are just plug-ins for Chrome.
So if you say Chrome plug-in for- SQLite,
viewer or editor, here are a lot, right?
I will take just pick just one.
>> Speaker 4: This extension was in-.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah, there are
a lot, also you have for Firefox as well,
I think there is one for Fox,
I think it's the best one,
some of this one on Scrum,
some of them are not so good.
Well, let's write this one, it's just
the first one I just picked, connect,
make contact, this is a website, so
SQLite viewer, create a new database.
No, I wanna open an existing
database that is in PHP,
frontend museum, data, data DB,
select the table, exhibits,
yep that's right and
there you can see the data, okay?
So, it's the same data, but
now inside the database,
of course this is compared
with the hardcoded array and
the JSON this is not read-only you,
can update the data as well, okay?
So, it's the JSON,
now it's just a JSON, actually,
you can rewrite the JSON if you want.
Okay, so
we were going to use that one, okay?
That's the goal, so
we are going to use that database.